# 10 Extensibility

## Extensible Type System

There are lots of APIs that make use of data within strings, e.g. regexes,
`document.createElement`, `document.querySelector`, `react-router`, etc.
TypeScript is able to infer types from some of these APIs such as
`createElement` and `querySelector`. This capability is likely to expand over
time now that TypeScript has conditional types, template literal types, and
`infer` . That being said, implementing type inference of this data within
TypeScript's type system is complicated and much slower than it could be.

Type inference in some cases may require access to external data, e.g. inferring
the type of GraphQL queries requires accessing a schema. There are plugins for
VSCode that provide editor support for GraphQL and SQL. These plugins provide
validation of queries in the editor and can also generate type definitions for
the queries. It's a workable solution, but it results in a lot of generated
files that need to be kept up to date and may result in merge conflicts with
other generated types.

Crochet will solve these issues by providing a plugin API for the type system
that can:

- infer structured types based on literals (strings, regexes, tagged template
  literals)
- access external resources (file system, network, etc.) to support this type
  inference

**Example: type safe regexes**

The TypeScript library definitions for `String.prototype.match` is quite
general. A plugin could be implemented using
[regex_syntax](https://docs.rs/regex-syntax/latest/regex_syntax/) to determine
which capture groups are in the regex. This information could then be used to
synthesize a Crochet type for successful matches. The code below shows what it
would look like using the plugin. The destructuring of the `input.match()`
result would be completely typesafe with `r`, `g`, and `b` being inferred as
`string`s.

```ts
type Color = {
  r: number,
  g: number,
  b: number,
};

let parseColor = (input) => {
  let regex = /rgb\((?<r>\d+),(?<g>\d+),(?<b>\d+)\)/;

  match input.match(regex) {
    {groups: {r, g, b}} -> ({
      r: parseInt(r),
      g: parseInt(g),
      b: parseInt(b),
    }),
    _ -> undefined
  }
};
```

## Linting

Crochet can provide a typed AST to a future linter. This would allow us to craft
more powerful rules than is currently possible with `eslint`.
